Adds tech details on why E-C-O is needed (#39)
suse-edge/endpoint-copier-operator: README.md

# endpoint-copier-operator
This is a Kubernetes operator whose purpose is to keep the created/managed `<managed-endpointslice-name>` EndpointSlice object (corresponding to an existing `<service-name>` Service object, both handled in the indicated `<namespace-name>` kubernetes Namespace) in sync with an existing `<source-endpointslice-name>` EndpointSlice API object in the `<source-namespace-name>` kubernetes Namespace.

> * Note the `<service-name>` Service API object in `<namespace-name>` Namespace must not include any defined "pod selector".

Reviewer: This is too much for the reader to digest on the first paragraph. I'll keep it as it is :)

> It is used on the SUSE Edge and SUSE Telco cloud products to expose the Kubernetes API on High Available rke2/k3s cluster deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is used on the SUSE Edge and SUSE Telco cloud products to expose the Kubernetes API on High Available RKE2/K3s cluster deployments.
```

* that/those reconcilers (one or many depending on how many control-plane nodes are defined in the kubernetes clusters) creating the corresponding `kubernetes` EndpointSlice object (in the `default` namespace).
* populating the content of that managed EndpointSlice object only with the control-plane node's IPv4/IPv6 addresses of those apiserver instances reporting to be available through the associated `apiserver-<xxxxx>` Lease object in `kube-system` namespace.

> * * if one of those `apiserver-<xxxxx>` leases is not renewed on time by the holder apiserver instance, the other apiserver instances are automatically detecting it and removing the faulty apiserver's IP address from the `kubernetes.default` EndpointSlice object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As explained in [kubernetes documentation - Service without selector](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#services-without-selectors), when a Service API object is created without specifying any "pod selector" (i.e., `.spec.selector` stanza is not set) the kubernetes built-in endpointslices controller does not create/manage the corresponding EndpointSlice API objects for it, so that/those API objects must be created and handled "by someone else".
This is the case for the built-in `kubernetes` Service object in the `default` namespace: the (on purpose) missing pod selector makes the built-in endpointslices controller to ignore it.

However, an special reconciler running inside each apiserver instance takes care of managing the corresponding `kubernetes.default` EndpointSlice API object as follows:
* the reconcilers create the corresponding `kubernetes` EndpointSlice object in the `default` namespace.
* they populate the content of that managed EndpointSlice object only with the control-plane node's IPv4/IPv6 addresses of those available apiserver instances via the associated `apiserver-<xxxxx>` eease object in `kube-system` namespace.
* if one of those `apiserver-<xxxxx>` leases is not renewed on time by the apiserver instance holder, the other apiserver instances detects it and remove the faulty apiserver's IP address from the `kubernetes.default` EndpointSlice object
```

> Note that using a pod selector for the `kubernetes.default` Service object would have raised a "chicken-and-egg" situation (due to using the apiserver to detect the availabilty of the apiserver instances itself and so a solution like that was discarded by kubernetes architects in the early days).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that using a pod selector for the `kubernetes.default` Service object would have raised a "chicken-and-egg" situation due to using the apiserver to detect the availabilty of the apiserver instances itself and so a solution like that was discarded by kubernetes architects in the early days.
```

> The same "egg and chicken" problem arises when aiming to expose this `kubernetes.default` endpoints outside a kubernetes High Available cluster through a `type:LoadBalancer` Service object; setting a "pod selector" in a defined LoadBalancer Service object (let's going to call it `kubernetes-vip`, being handled in the `default` namespace) pointing to the static kube-apiserver pods "running" in each control-plane node would not work as soon as one of the control-plane nodes becomes unavailable 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same "chicken-and-egg" problem arises when aiming to expose this `kubernetes.default` endpoints outside a Kubernetes High Available cluster using a `type:LoadBalancer` Service object. Setting a "pod selector" in a defined LoadBalancer Service object pointing to the static kube-apiserver pods "running" in each control-plane node would not work as soon as one of the control-plane nodes becomes unavailable 
```

> (as the kubelet instance running in the unavailable control-plane node is the only one entitled to set the status of the related kube-apiserver pod as "Not Ready" for the built-in endpointslices controller to remove the related control-plane's IP address from the corresponding EndpointSlice object ... but how can that kubelet instance report that (through the apiserver) if it cannot reach the apiserver as it crahed ir it is running in an isolated control-pane node?). The `endpoint-copier-operator` is the SUSE Edge and SUSE Telo Cloud solution for this: being instructed to keep in sync the `kubernetes-vip.default` EndPointSlice object (associated to the `kubernetes-vip` LoadBalancer Service object) and the built-in `kubernetes.default` EndpointSlice object.

Reviewer: Try to simplify this somehow, I couldn't understood it after reading it twice :D

Author: Sure, let me try it !

Author: I reworded this paragraph, trying to make it simpler to digest .. I hope ;-)

* if one of those `apiserver-<xxxxx>` leases is not renewed on time by the apiserver instance holder, the other apiserver instances detect it and remove the faulty apiserver's IP address from the `kubernetes.default` EndpointSlice object.

Note that using a pod selector for the `kubernetes.default` Service object would have raised a "chicken-and-egg" situation due to using the apiserver to detect the availabilty of the apiserver instances itself and so a solution like that was discarded by kubernetes architects in the early days.

The same "chicken-and-egg" problem arises when aiming to expose the `kubernetes.default` endpoints outside a Kubernetes High Available cluster using a `type:LoadBalancer` Service object. An approach based on setting a "pod selector" in a defined LoadBalancer Service object that points to all the static kube-apiserver pods "running" in the control-plane node would fail as soon as experiencing availability/reachabilty issues in the control-plane nodes, as tried to be explained here below:

> * A node becomes unavailable/unreachable (from a kubernetes cluster point of view) when "its" kubelet daemon cannot renew its lease object before it expires (remember there is one Lease object per kubernetes node defined in the built-in `kube-node-lease` namespace; the kubernetes per-node HeartBeat monitoring mechanism based on each lease being renewed periodically, through the apiserver, by the kubelet daemon holding it plus the built-in nodes controller watching all these per-node Lease objects and updating the Node objects' status accordingly).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A node is marked unavailable when its kubelet fails to renew its Lease object before expiration. In the Kubernetes heartbeat mechanism, each node has a dedicated Lease object in the `kube-node-lease` namespace. The kubelet must periodically renew this lease via the API server; if it fails, the Node Controller detects the expired lease and updates the Node object's status to Unknown or NotReady.
```

Author: Updated as proposed

> * A kubelet not being able to renew its lease on time means it could not reach the apiserver before the lease timed-out (for whatever reason: that kubelet daemon crashed and failed to be restarted, the apiserver instance/s it tries to contact is/are not reachable, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Let's take one of the possible casues: a networking issue left that control-plane node isolated from the rest; the kubelet running in that node should now inform (through the apiserver) that the apiserver instance running in that node is not reachable, setting the status of the static kube-apiserver pod representing that apiservice instance as "Not ready" (for the built-in endpointslices controller detect/watch it and automatically remove that IP from the EndpointSlice object associated to the LoadBalancer service object) ... but this is not going to happen as that kubelet daemon cannot reach the apiserver. Again a chicken-and-egg deadelock due to trying to use the apiserver to report an apiserver instance availability issue ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the event of network isolation on a control plane node, a reporting deadlock occurs. Normally, the EndpointSlice controller relies on pod status updates to manage the LoadBalancer service. While the node's kubelet is responsible for marking the static kube-apiserver pod as NotReady, it requires an active API connection to do so. Since the isolation prevents the kubelet from communicating with the control plane, the stale API endpoint remains in the EndpointSlice until the external health checks of the Load Balancer itself intervene.
```

Author: Updated as proposed

> The `endpoint-copier-operator` is the SUSE Edge/Telo Cloud solution to this: it runs a reconciler being instructed to keep in sync the managed `kubernetes-vip.default` EndPointSlice object (associated to a manually created `kubernetes-vip` type=LoadBalancer Service object) with the built-in `kubernetes.default` EndpointSlice object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To resolve these consistency issues, the endpoint-copier-operator runs a dedicated reconciliation loop. Its primary job is to mirror the built-in kubernetes.default EndpointSlice into a managed kubernetes-vip.default object. This managed slice is linked to a manual kubernetes-vip LoadBalancer Service, providing a reliable bridge between the internal cluster discovery and the external load balancing infrastructure.
```

Author: Updated as proposed
